Add connect an agent tutorial (#684)
xmtp/docs-xmtp-org: docs/pages/agents/build-agents/connect-to-xmtp.mdx

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                YOUR AGENT                   │
│                                             │
│  ┌───────────────────────────────────────┐  │
│  │            1. THE BRAIN               │  │
│  │  Your AI / logic                      │  │
│  │  (decides what to say)                │  │
│  └─────────────────▲─────────────────────┘  │
│                    │                        │
│  ┌─────────────────▼─────────────────────┐  │
│  │           3. THE GLUE                 │  │
│  │  a. Get message from XMTP             │  │
│  │  b. Send message to brain             │  │
│  │  c. Get response from brain           │  │
│  │  d. Send response back to XMTP        │  │
│  └─────────────────▲─────────────────────┘  │
│                    │                        │
│  ┌─────────────────▼─────────────────────┐  │
│  │      2. THE MESSAGING FRAMEWORK       │  │
│  │  XMTP Agent SDK                       │  │
│  │  (encrypted send/receive over XMTP)   │  │
│  └───────────────────────────────────────┘  │
│                                             │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

> This separation matters. Swapping the brain (say, from a Q&A assistant to a trading advisor) doesn't require changing the messaging layer. The SDK doesn't care what your agent does. It just delivers the messages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This separation matters. Swapping the brain (say, from a Q&A assistant to a trading advisor) doesn't require changing the messaging layer. The SDK doesn't know what your agent does. It just delivers messages securely.
```

## Prerequisites

- **Node.js 22+** (required by the XMTP Agent SDK)
- **An Anthropic API key** from [console.anthropic.com](https://console.anthropic.com/)
- **Basic TypeScript knowledge** (we will explain the XMTP-specific parts)
- **An Ethereum wallet private key** — the agent needs an identity on the network. Any hex private key works. Don't have one? Use the [local key generator](/agents/get-started/build-an-agent#local-key-generator) to create one in your browser.

:::tip
Using Claude Code or another AI coding assistant? The XMTP Agent SDK has [Claude Code skills](/agents/get-started/build-with-llms#claude-code-skills) that can scaffold, deploy, and troubleshoot your agent project directly from your IDE.
:::

## Step 1: Scaffold the project

Create a new directory and initialize the project:

```bash
mkdir my-xmtp-agent
cd my-xmtp-agent
git init
```

Create `package.json`. Two fields to note:

> - `"type": "module"`: Tells Node.js to treat files as ES modules so `import`/`export` syntax works. Without it, Node defaults to CommonJS (`require`/`module.exports`) and the Agent SDK won't load.

Author: Removed it. 👍

```json
{
  "name": "my-xmtp-agent",
  "version": "1.0.0",
  "private": true,
  "type": "module",
  "scripts": {
    "build": "tsc",
    "dev": "tsx --watch src/index.ts",
    "start": "tsx src/index.ts",
    "typecheck": "tsc"
  },
  "engines": {
    "node": ">=22"
  }
}
```

Install the dependencies:

```bash
# Runtime dependencies
yarn add @xmtp/agent-sdk @anthropic-ai/sdk dotenv

# Dev tools (not needed at runtime)
yarn add -D typescript tsx @types/node
```

- `@xmtp/agent-sdk`: Connects your agent to the XMTP network for messaging
- `@anthropic-ai/sdk`: Your agent's brain (Claude)
- `dotenv`: Loads environment variables from a `.env` file
- `tsx`: Runs TypeScript files directly

Create `tsconfig.json`:

```json
{
  "compilerOptions": {
    "module": "ESNext",
    "moduleResolution": "Bundler",
    "target": "ESNext",
    "strict": true,
    "esModuleInterop": true,
    "skipLibCheck": true,
    "noEmit": true,
    "types": ["node"]
  },
  "include": ["**/*.ts"]
}
```

Now create the `.env` file. This holds the secrets the agent needs at runtime:

```
# .env
XMTP_WALLET_KEY=0x...         # Your agent's Ethereum private key (must have 0x prefix)

> XMTP_DB_ENCRYPTION_KEY=...    # A 32-byte hex key for encrypting the local database

Author: added the commands and embedded Benny's local key generator tool

XMTP_ENV=dev                  # dev, production, or local
ANTHROPIC_API_KEY=sk-ant-...  # Your Claude API key
```

> Make sure `.env` is in your `.gitignore` so you don't accidentally commit secrets.

Reviewer: ❤️
